---
id: qualitative-approach
title: Qualitative approach and research paradigm
---
**Qualitative approach (e.g., ethnography, grounded theory, case study, phenomenology, narrative research) and guiding theory if appropriate; identifying the research paradigm (e.g., post-positivist, constructivist/interpretivist) is also recommended; rationale.**

The research paradigm is the set of beliefs and assumptions that guide the research process. These commonly include positivist, post-positivist, constructivist or interpretivist, and critical theory. Qualitative research generally draws from a post-positivist or constructivist/interpretivist paradigm. We recommend identifying the research paradigm so that readers understand whether the researcher assumes that there is a single, objective reality (positivist or post-positivist) and has thus designed the study to describe this reality or whether the researcher assumes multiple, subjective realities and designed the study to describe these multiple realities, with no attempt to merge or reconcile these realities (constructivist/interpretivist). The paradigm has implications for the study design, approach, methods, and techniques to ensure rigor and trustworthiness.

Qualitative research includes an array of approaches and methodologies, both general (e.g., qualitative content analysis, general inductive approach) and specific (e.g., ethnography, grounded theory, phenomenography). Since the research paradigm does not necessarily dictate particular approaches or methods, the approach should also be clearly defined. Stating the approach provides readers the opportunity to evaluate the fidelity of the research approach to the research question(s) and consider the rationale for modifications and deviations from the selected approach. Qualitative research also includes an array of methods that can be used across paradigms and approaches. (See also Item 10) The researcher should explain why the selected approach is appropriate for the research question, and provide references to theories or traditions that guide the use of the approach as needed.

## Examples

> The study was performed from a constructivist point of view using an interpretative phenomenological epistemology. Based on the notion that social phenomena are constructed by the communal making of meaning about the underlying phenomena, we aimed to construct insightful accounts of lead consultants’ approaches to educational change, rather than to identify the ‘true’ nature of these approaches. Because the management of change by lead consultants is an under-researched area, we conducted an exploratory qualitative study...

> Given the relative dearth of explanatory theories about factors affecting medical students’ emotional reactions, we chose to develop one by applying methods associated with grounded theory, specifically constant comparative analysis, to qualitative data obtained from learning logs and interviews. Our approach was constructivist, deliberately using researchers’ own experiences and acquired knowledge to enhance theoretical sensitivity and enrich theory development.
