---
id: 
title: 
---
Item 12. Units of study: Number and relevant characteristics of participants, documents, or events included in the study; level of participation.
Explanation: Authors should describe the participants, documents, or events included in the study (the units of study). The sampling item (Item 8) describes the target or ideal participants, documents, or events selected for the study. By contrast, Item 12 focuses on description of the actual participants, documents or events included in the study. Authors should describe how the actual participants, documents, or events differ from the targeted sample, why these differences may have occurred, and how this might affect the findings.
Authors should describe characteristics of the participants, documents or events that are relevant to the study purpose and research question(s).1 For participants, this might include age, gender, profession, institution, year of training, or relationship to the researcher and/or other participants in the study. For documents, this might include the source, intended audience, date, or type of document. For events, this might include the location, date(s), length, characteristics of attendees or participants in the event, or mood or emotional climate. If the degree of participation varied among individuals (e.g., multiple occasions; interviews and observations), the authors should describe different levels of participation. For example, if some participants were observed and interviewed and others only interviewed, or if some participants completed multiple interviews and others completed a single interview, these variations should be explained. Authors should also explain the reasons for these differences (i.e., the researchers’ choice or the participants’ preferences) and how these different levels of participation were taken into account in the analysis. Authors should also include the dates or timeframe for participation.

This information about participants could appear in the Methods section as part of the description of the sample, or at the beginning of the Results section to provide context for the findings presented.
Example:
Of the 70 Mindful Communication program participants, 46 met the eligibility requirements to participate in the in-depth interviews. We randomly chose and then contacted 22 participants, of whom 20 agreed to be interviewed within six months of completing the program: 15 in person and 5 by telephone. Two declined for lack of time. On reaching saturation after 20 interviews, no further attempts to contact the remaining 24 participants were made.
There were 31 nursing handovers covering 137 patients, and 21 resident handovers covering 101 patients included in this study.
